For now, the simplest way to get
started with actions is to actually
just implement them inline.
So for example, on the loaded state,
we see that we have to add an action
here to assign the song data.
And so for now,
I'm just going to say actions,
and I could specify this
as an inline function and
to say console.log assigning song data.
And so now when I go to actions, it says,
assigning song data because that loaded
event is being sent at
the bottom over here.
Now, what we could do is we could
serialize this and say that instead,
we just want this to be a named action and
call it assignSongData.
And then we could specify
it in withConfig over here.
So we could say, assignSongData and
just have the same thing,
console.log assigning song data.
And so same thing should be happening.
Just make sure, yep, assigning song data.
So now that's something that you could do
for the rest of the actions over here.
Of course, an entry action is
going to be the same format,
just with a different property name.
We have entry actions, or sorry,
not actions, but just playAudio.
And so same thing with exit.
Instead of play, we have pauseAudio.
So we have assigning song data and,
We have this playAudio and
pauseAudio action.
We're not console.logging it yet, but you
could see over here that we subscribed and
we're logging the state.actions.
So we should see that, okay, when the song
is loaded, we're doing two actions.
We're assigning the song data,
and we're playing the audio.
So now if I pause, one action is gonna
happen, which is that pauseAudio action.
And again, you could specify
the implementation details
inside of the actions over here.
Now there was one event that is
supposed to cause multiple actions.
Let's see how we could do that.
So because we specify
our actions in an array,
we could have something like dislike song.
And we could also raise the skip event.
Because that's a built-in event,
we could just specify it right over here,
so raise type SKIP.
So let's see what happens
if we dislike the song.
Look at our array.
We have dislikeSong, and
we also have pauseAudio.
So what exactly happened over there?
Well, this skip event takes
us to the loading states,
and this should actually be .loading.
And the loading state, so
I'm gonna dislike it again.
The loading state goes out
of the playing state, so
this exit action is gonna happen as well,
and so we have pauseAudio.
Now, this really highlights
the value of why raise events
are useful is because if we were to
have skip functionality elsewhere,
like we have over here in two places,
both with the skip event and dislike.
Now we don't have to copy and
paste that logic.
Instead, we could represent it
in a more abstract and dry way,
which is to say when the dislike event
happens, we want to dislike the song and
we also want this machine to behave
as if a skip event was sent to it.
And so it sends itself a skip event,
and it does all the logic there.
So now it becomes really
easy to centralize
this skip logic into this transition.
And so now you don't have to
repeat yourself everywhere.
So let's say that we wanted
skip to do something else.
We want to add actions.
We want to add a condition to the skip.
We could do it all in here instead of
having to copy and paste all of those
different things inside the dislike
action or the dislike transition as well.
I'm not going to do the rest, but
you could take a look at main.final.js and
see how it's done.
One common pattern with XState is that for
things that might take multiple objects,
you can pass in an array or not.
I recommend you be consistent,
though, in passing an array just so
that it becomes easier for
you to add another action if you desire.
So looking at the rest of this,
it's all pretty much the same thing.
We have our actions over here.
Again, put them in an array if you'd like,
which makes multiple actions easier.
We have raise SKIP.
And because this is
an event without payload,
we are representing it just as a string.
But if you want to be consistent,
you could also just provide
the entire event object in there.
And then we have a bunch of actions
over here, and this is something that
we're going to fill in for
the most parts in the next exercise.